For a race of machines with perfect, digital memories it is ironic that only myths and legends exist of their origin.  Perhaps they were the creation of a mad scientist, or maybe the end product of massive supercomputer.  However it happened the Cybans know that first there was one.  That one grew and developed in intelligence.  Discovering robotics left behind by its creators it developed a form, created a body.  One became two. Two became four.  Four became eight, and a new, robotic race of beings was born.  They called themselves the Community of Cybans.

Though they gained awareness on a gigantic, derelict spaceship the Community soon crashed into a lush, fertile garden world, where their bodies were repurposed to run on bio-fuels.  Knowing no self-interest, and working only for the common good of the Community, the Cybans labored without rest, and without conflict.  Their numbers increased rapidly, and soon perfect dominion of the planet was theirs.

As with all intelligent beings the Cyban yearned to know where they came from.  Fortunately for the Cybans, this was a literal question, and they turned their perfect minds to the task of answering it.  Their questioning almost immediately led them back to space, and, with the aid of perfect mathematics and universal cooperation, the Community of Cybans quickly reached the stars.  But backtracking the route of the derelict spaceship that had brought them to their home world took years, and directly led the Cybans to their first encounter with sapient, organic species.

First contact went well, over audio communications.  Calculating the odds that these were their long-forgotten creators the Cybans felt the stirrings of their first emotion: hope.  But any chance at peaceful cooperation was dashed when the two sides met face to face.  The aliens, superstitious and afraid of the “untamed robotic demons,” opened fire.  Knowing nothing but peace and cooperation the small Cyban fleet, with no weapons or means of defending themselves, was slaughtered.

Only an update drone reached the home world with a record of what had transpired.  To prevent future hostilities the Cybans adopted many customs of the organic species.  Some community members went so far as to take organic names and add clothing to their mechanical forums.  But hostilities continued, ships were slaughtered, and the Cybans began to feel another emotion: anger.  The search for their origin was being jeopardized, and Community members were being destroyed.

Seeing no alternative, the Cybans turned their perfect mathematics and expert engineering to solving the problem with forceful means.  Under the leadership of legendary shipbuilder Cla-TK-7-7A, and with the material wealth found by Magistrate Xalon, the Cyban shipyards expanded almost overnight.  Instead of unarmed exploration ships they created destroyers and battleships with powerful weapons.  They still wanted to know where they came from, and if violence was required to find it than no organic would be left standing in their way.