How or why the Vass developed is as unknown as it is unknowable.  During the first eons of their existence they could have been mistaken as a small clouds drifting around their prehistoric world.  Over time the clouds grew and multiplied.  It wasn’t until their numbers swelled significantly that they formed the first intelligent thought.

The more the Vass grew and multiplied the more intelligent they became.  Eventually, they formed a communal consciousness, a shared intelligence.  After countless more millennia this developed into one of the most refined intellects in the known universe.

This intellect eventually pointed them to the stars.  Unaware of the limitations of their shared intelligence the Vass sent ships to explore the cosmos.  These explorations proved to be disastrous.  Once the venturing Vass traveled past the range of their shared intellect they rapidly grew confused and simpleminded, unable to perform any function that required higher-level intelligence.  Essentially crewless husks, these first ships still drift across the endless cosmos.

Using their shared intellect the Vass developed new ships, built from a crystalline element found on their home world.  These new designs, coupled with the natural properties of the crystal, allowed even the smallest vessel to carry enough Vass to maintain their intelligence.  When their foraying ships discovered alien life the horde became known as the to the universe as Vass Collective.

Initially having no discernable leadership, the Collective concluded it needed a single being to lead them and interact with its neighbors.  It was the single-greatest problem the Collective had ever contemplated, and the solution came only after great struggle.  The answer redefined the way their race would forever look at themselves.

Over a million of the eldest members of the Collective permanently linked their minds and melded their bodies into one, sacrificing their own lives for the greater good of the Vass.  The result was Eesathu, a member of the Collective and yet a Collective all by itself.  Able to function at the highest levels of intelligence while completely isolated, Eesathu became the leader the Vass needed.  He is their spokesperson, guide, and guardian.   And, to some Vass, a savior, pointing the way they must travel for further enlightenment.

United as never before under its leadership, the Vass Collective has set out to expand and explore the galaxy.  Willing to live in peaceful harmony the Vass will accept new members into their fellowship, knowing they will become greater for the added thoughts.  But they will not let any race stop the expansion of the Collective.  And with their unified mind and unprecedented leader it will take a collective effort to stop them.