In 2114 A.D. Humanity nearly destroyed itself as years of self-destructive behavior, corruption, and incompetence created a global economic collapse.  Governments fell, people starved, and anarchy was more common than any semblance of peace and order.

The survivors eventually rallied, and a global Coalition was formed.  First created out of rough and tumble city-states, which were mostly concerned with their own survival, the Coalition seemed likely to fail.  To succeed it required diplomacy, ingenuity, and many black-operations that, officially, never happened.  Because of the sacrifice of many patriots the Coalition first survived, then stabilized, and finally flourished.

After the Coalition stabilized its rule humanity regained faith in itself.  Calling upon a rich history of entrepreneurial spirit and tough-as-nails attitude the humans looked beyond their world to the riches of space, quickly colonizing their solar system.

As humanity’s influence expanded, so did the reach of their government.  Looking deeply into the lives of even the most common citizen, big government oversight and meddling bureaucracy spawned a breed of space smugglers.  These unique individuals developed many knacks and technologies to slip past any security or customs checkpoint the Coalition could think of.  In short order many space captains earned well-over half their pay through “fun runs,” as smuggling operations became known.

After colonizing their own backyard the human’s ingenuity carried them to new solar systems, and into direct conflict with other sentient civilizations.  While they first sought to peacefully coexist with their new neighbors, misunderstandings and diplomatic mistakes raised tensions.  Things only got worse when several space captains bungled simple “fun runs” and were discovered with highly illegal cargos.

Afraid, but determined, the Coalition braced itself for this new conflict, their courage bolstered by the presence of living legends such as Captain Jack Gentry and Colonel Hanifer.  Building new ships, training covert operatives, and capitalizing on its pilots smuggling skills, the Humans have prepared themselves to face any incoming threat with steely resolve, accurate fire, and silent knives in back rooms.  The fate of humanity hangs in the balance, and the Humans have never faced extinction quietly.