Although they are highly cunning and competitive the people of the Draske Hegemony have known peace and prosperity for millennia, under the guiding hand of the Matriarchs.  Evolving from small, winged lizards and blessed with millennia-long lives the Draske are the undisputed masters of their planet.  Impressive wingspans, often five or more tales wide, allow them to perform complex aerial maneuvers at high speeds and makes them naturals at aeronautics acrobatics.

Highly competitive by nature the Draske hold weekly, monthly and annual competitions in everything from farming, to the arts, to the most prized competition of all: aerial maneuvering.  Doing well in these tournaments ensures prestige, wealth, and a successful career.  Those who fail the competitions more than three times in a row often end their lives as quietly, and as quickly, as possible, to eliminate any shame they have brought to their family lines.

When space flight became possible the Matriarch ordered the swiftest and most agile Draske to compete in an aerial tournament for the honor of become the first crews.  This annual tournament is still held, assuring only the most skilled Draske earn one of the coveted spots at the space academy, where a shrine is lovingly maintained with the names of the first ships’ crewmembers.

Over the thousands of years they have flown through the cosmos since that first tournament the Draske have discovered many other intelligent species.  Some, still in the beginning stages of tool use, they have left to their own devices.  Others they lifted up to the stars.  A few have been embraced into the Hegemony as client members, such as the grub-like members Harge Commune, or the Felinoids of the Gnactic Space Federation.

Naturally friendly and open to new possibilities the Draske are quick to extend the hand and wing of friendship to other space-faring civilizations.  But recently the hands and wings have been cut off and returned in dead ships.  And so the Draske have called up ship designs not used in living memory.  Ships designed to cut and dart through the void.  Ships designed to kill.

But some in the Hegemony have growing tired of the Matriarch’s rule.  Cries for gender and even racial equality are on the rise, and others have called for outright war or full disarmament.  Thoughts of change and new leadership are taking wing faster than the Draske themselves, and Hegemony wide unrest seems ready to break free.  Though no single thread of thought has gained united support it is clear to the Matriarch that the people are divided.  The coming times will see the continuation of the Hegemony, united in one flock as never before, or the sundering of the Draske into individual fliers, lacking direction and lost in a storm.