> Persnickety is a nifty little trait that has seen some interesting developments over time and which I will always associate with a certain top player due to his profuse use of it. Therefore, I feel the need to go into some detail about what makes the trait so special in order to shed some light on the current situation.
> 
> For a long time, Persnickety was a relatively obscure trait whose more intricate workings were not well understood by most players and which was not used much by veteran players. Prior to v1.2.1 which saw an overhaul of some of the most central mechanical features of Starbase Orion, such as civic funding, ship movement and certain key buildings like Research Center and Orbital Laboratory, Persnickety wasn't used by the top players of the time like VanderLegion and Diebo, who'd always preferred Shared Intelligence, or 37ddV and MarcusVictor, who had invented a nigh-unbeatable industry blitz strategy relying on rapid advancement towards the opponent and cruisers fitted with L3, still the most cost-effective and reliable weapon in the entire game. Both groups of veteran players counted on passive RP from Research Centers and Orbital Labs, buildings which then did not force you to assign colonists as scientists in order to be useful as they do now. In an environment like this, Persnickety was not really needed because the bonus it provided to research was wasted: you just didn't need scientists at the time if you played the right way. That was in 2012 which is when I myself started playing this game.
> 
> Then, in v1.2.1, everything that changed. Research buildings no longer provided any passive RP. Research traits, on the other hand -- previously not much used -- received a huge boost. Civic funding was soft capped to prevent abuse by mechanics gurus like Diebo who had used it in conjunction with high industry output to grow population exponentially, which forced a shift in population growth strategies towards Cloning Center and Colony Ship 2.
> 
> It took a while for players to get their bearings in the new environment, and Skins0815, a relative newcomer back then, was the first player to realize and exploit the potential in Persnickety in post-v1.2.1 Starbase Orion. He found out that **the bonus to industry and research provided by Persnickety stacks both with other racial bonuses and with unit bonuses from buildings like Efficient Factories and Research Center**, which is not all that apparent because not many things in SO provide a percentage bonus to colonist productivity and the trait's description says nothing about its interaction with other bonuses. This is a big deal so I will explain in detail what this means in practice.
> 
> Let's say you have a scientist happily researching away on some planet and Persnickety is the only racial trait you have. As the description says, you get a 20% bonus to all research, and since scientists normally produce 3 RP/turn each, the bonus you get from Persnickety is 3 RP/turn * 0.2 = 0.6 RP/turn. Although you get the same 20% bonus to industry from Persnickety, if this were all there was to the trait, the penalties the trait gives to morale and farming would mean that it wouldn't be all that great.
> 
> However, let's now pair Persnickety with Borderline Genius which essentially doubles your scientists' effectiveness by granting you +3 RP/turn/scientist for a total of 6 RP/turn/scientist. Now, because Persnickety stacks on top of the bonus from Borderline Genius, the bonus it provides doubles as well to 1.2 RP/turn/scientist. Got Research Center I too? Congratulations, Persnickety now gives you 6+1 RP/turn/scientist * 0.2 = 1.4 RP/turn/scientist. Got RC3? Congratulations, this one trait now gives a 1.8 RP/turn bonus to the output of each of your scientists. Not too bad anymore for a 3 point trait, huh? (Used to be only 2 racial points before v1.2.2, by the way -- even Rocco was eventually convinced that Persnickety was a little too good for that price.) Naturally, you do have to consider the 5% morale penalty as well, but even so, you end up with +1.4 RP/scientist/turn if you have all the goodies. I'll address the farming penalty's significance in a moment.
> 
> So that's *in addition* to the bonus you get to industry. Persnickety is actually even nicer with industry because the base productivity of a worker can be up to 7 PP/turn on a very rich planet, more than double the base productivity of a scientist on any planet. The quickest readers will already have calculated that you can get up to +2.4 PP/turn/worker from Persnickety if you also have Amazing Industrialists and both EF2 and Planetary Core Mining on a very rich planet (7+2+2+1 * 0.2), minus the morale penalty for a net bonus of +1.8 PP/turn/worker.
> 
> It's understandable that Persnickety is mutually exclusive with Shared Intelligence, otherwise we'd be seeing every decent player use both traits in every game.
> 
> Two things can be deduced at this point. First of all, you need both Amazing Industrialists and Borderline Genius in order to take full advantage of Persnickety, and that requires a lot of racial points: 6+6+3=15, already over the base allotment by 5 points without considering any other traits you might want to take. Secondly, since you can't take Shared Intelligence to ease farming on your HW in addition to its other benefits, you need some way of doing farming efficiently or the bonuses Persnickety gives won't be all that useful with much of your talented population being re-educated in the delights of manual labor out on the fields.
> 
> This used to be less of a problem back when everybody started with a free 20% bonus to farming gained from the binary star of their home system. Not necessarily having that boost to farming anymore is a big deal to any player with Persnickety, who grudgingly had to assign a lot of farmers at the beginning of the game even when you did start with a certain binary home star. If that were the only change bad for Persnickety, we might still be seeing some top players use the trait in 1v1, but the biggest problem for Persnickety builds now is the nerf that Cloning Center got back in v1.2.3.
> 
> No longer the early game tech that easily let you overcome the pop growth penalty from Old Fashioned that it once was, Cloning Center is now too far back in the civil research tree to solve early game population growth for builds with Old Fashioned. There are not too many point-giving negative traits in the game whose penalty is acceptable for the points you get, so getting all the points you need for a full-blown Persnickety build is tough, which is why Old Fashioned was always taken back when CC was easy to get. Now, you have precisely two options if you don't want your population growth to stagnate and be overrun by a more fecund adversary: either pick Fertile Biology or Baby Boomers, or get a shitload of science starting from turn 1 and rely on IMN until you research cloning. The latter option is not possible for Persnickety builds because you need too many farmers in the beginning, bonus food from Hydroponic Centers notwithstanding, so picking either Fertile Biology or Baby Boomers seems to be the only way for Persnickety builds to still stand a chance in a competitive match against a good player using a SI science build. Having to pick Fertile Biology hurts because it means you can no longer afford to get Amazing Industrialists and Freethinking, and so your productivity suffers.
> 
> The strength of Persnickety, when properly used, is that it allows for a racial build strong both in science and industry. Early game industry was more important when you had to build Cloning Centers ASAP on all your planets after researching the tech early on, but that is still a distinct advantage that Persnickety builds have over SI science builds relying on Robust Techies for their early game industry. You can use that industry either to attack quickly if the map is small enough or to hoard it for when you eventually get CS2, which will be later than your SI-using opponent but not necessarily too late on a big map. I have come up with one Persnickety build in v1.2.5 using Fertile Biology (only Industrious Individuals) that is capable of staggering growth by around stardate 406.1 on quick game speed if you beeline towards CS2 (no IMN) and hoard industry on your rich and very rich planets in anticipation. Science SI with Fertile Biology (no BR) is able to begin a CS2 expansion by around 10 turns earlier with IMN and ACP3, albeit with somewhat less hoarded industry initially, so my money is on SI over Persnickety at the moment but Persnickety is certainly not bad either. It may not allow for the kind of powerhouse builds it once did but **Persnickety is still a very useful and versatile trait.**
>
>Excerpt from the **STRATEGY GUIDE FOR STARBASE ORION V1.2.5**  
>by anthee